# DAA Lab - Session 5 - Insertion Sort and comparison of sorting algorithms

## Decrease-and-Conquer: Implementation of Insertion Sort algorithm


### Problem Definition: 
Sort an array of student records (a record is a structure with a “serial number” and a “score” field) using Insertion Sort in nondecreasing order on the “serial number” field of the records. Compare the running time and number of element-to-element comparisons with the implementations of Bubble Sort, Selection Sort.
Input: Input begins with n (1 ≤ n ≤ 220) of number of records indicating the size of the input array. The following n lines has a record per line with a 9-digit “serial number” field and a 4-digit integer “score” field separated by a space.

### Output: 
Output to have five lines, one line for each of Insertion Sort, Bubble Sort, Selection Sort. A line to have the name of the algorithm, element-to-element comparison count and running time (in seconds upto 6 decimal places) separated by spaces as shown in the sample output. For the set of 8 test-cases of random numbers (of input sizes 32k, 64k, 96k, 128k, 160k, 192k, 224, and 256k), plot two curves of an algorithm per graph sheet; one curve for the comparison counts and the other for the running times. So five graph sheets for the set of 8 test-cases to be used. Let the x-axis to have input sizes 32k per unit, and two different units for the y-axis; one being comparison count and the other being time in seconds. Mention about the correlation between comparison counts and running times in your conclusion.

#### Sample Input:
5
2123456 100
1234 92
1 1
123123123 9999
9 99

#### Sample Output:
Insertion Sort: 6 0.000000
Bubble Sort: 7 0.000000
Selection Sort: 10 0.000000

### Algorithms:

```
Algorithm InsertionSort(A[0..n-1])
	for i ← 1 to n-1
		temp ← A[i]
		j ← i-1
		while(j ≥ 0 and A[j] > temp)
			A[j+1] ← A[j]
			j ← j-1
		A[j+1] ← temp
```
```
Algorithm BubbleSort(A[0..n-1])
	for i ← 0 to n - 2
		noSwaps ← TRUE
		for j ← 0 to n - 2 - i
			if(A[j] > A[j+1]) 
				swap A[j] and A[j+1]
				noSwaps ← FALSE
		if (noSwaps = TRUE) return
```
```Algorithm SelectionSort(A[0..n-1])
	for i ← 0 to n-2
	min ← i
	for j ← i+1 to n-1
		if(A[j] < A[min]) min ← j
	Swap A[i] with A[min]
```

Practice-Problems:
    1. Just like the set of 8 test-cases of random numbers, generate sets of test-cases with sorted numbers, sorted in reverse order, almost sorted, a lot of repeated entries, etc. Some algorithms are expected to perform better than the others on specific kinds of inputs.
